---
title: "商业分析基础概念"
date: 2024-12-18 23:30:30 +0800
categories: [Business, Business_analytics]
tags: [business_analytics]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
---
# 1. Overview of Business analytics
---
## 1.1 The Definition of Business Analytics
Business analytics is a process of gathering, inspecting, cleaning, transforming and modeling data.<br>
The goal of business analytics is gathering useful information to suggest conclusions and support decision making.

## 1.2 Business Analytics Skills:
1. Data cleaning
    - a process of detecting and correcting inaccurate and corrupt data, and removing unwanted data.

2. Explotary Data Analysis(EDA)
    - a process of recongnizing the data and make it easy to read and understand. 
    - EDA is used to adjust data types and deal with missing data. It can also detect outliers and anomalies.
    - it includes four steps: 1.Loading the Data; 2.Data Visualization; 3.Data Imputation; 4.Statistics Analysis.

3. Statistics
    - statistics is used to model complex problem in real world.
    - statistics takes two forms:
        - *Descriptive statistics* uses the data to provide descriptions of the population, either through charts, tables, or numerical calculations.
        - *Inferential Statistics* : hypothesis testing, correlation coefficient, statistics significance.

4. Data Visualization
    - the representation of data in the form of charts, dashboards, etc.
    - The main goal of DV is to make it easier to identify patterns, trends and outliers in large data sets.

5. Programming

## 1.3 Types of Business Analytics
1. Descriptive——What has happend?
2. Predictive——What will happen?
3. Prescriptive——What can we do today to influence future outcomes?
    - Recognize what is going on, the likely forecast, and make decisions to achieve the best performance possible.<br>
    - Aims to determine the best possible decision.<br>
    - Uses both descriptive and predictive analytics to create alternatives, and then determines the best one.

# 2. Data
---
## 2.1 The Definition of Data
Data is raw facts, figures, measurements and amounts that we gather for analysis or reference, it  also includes descriptive information about things, plants, animals, and people.

## 2.2 Data Types
Two Data Types:
1. Structured data
Quantitative data, is used when   quantify a  problem or address the "what" or "how many" aspects  of a research question.<br>
It can divided into:
- Categorical
Can be put in groups or categories using names or labels
    - Nominal
    a type of categorical data in which objects fall into unordered categories (i.e., order is not important).
    - Ordinal
    ordinal data is a type of categorical data in which order is important.
    - Binary
    a type of categorical data in which there are only 2 categories
- Measurement
    - Discrete
    The object can be measured as quantitative data(numerical data), the resulting data is a set of numbers.<br>
    It can be discrete or continuou.<br>
    E.X. Cholesterol level, Weight, Height, Age, SAT score

    - Continuous

2. Unstructured/Semi-structed data
Qualitative data that describe qualities or characteristics.

- Textual

- Multimedia
    - Image
    - Audio
    - Video

- HTML/XML


# 3. Dataset
Dataset is an ordered collection of data, it can be a set of numbers or values that pertain to a specific topic.<br>
This set is normally presented in a tabular pattern. <br>
Every column describes a particular variable/attribute. <br>
Each row(exclude the header) corresponds to a data record/observation.<br>
<br>
In one dataset, we care about 2 things:
- Attributes/Variables
- Observations/Data records

>Tables
>the most commonly used structure to store data in a dataset.

# 4. Data Visualization
Data visualization enable us to explore the patterns in data, such as: 
- the presence of outliers
- distributions of individual variables
- relationships between groups of variables

Data Visualization has different types of Charts:
- Scatter Plot
- Histogram
- Line Chart
- Bar Chart
- Stacked Bar Chart
- Box Plot

## 4.1 Scatterplot
A scatterplot shows the relationship between **two numerical variables** plotted simultaneously along both the horizontal and vertical axis.<br>
A scatterplot is often used to understand data rather than to communicate with it. <br>
Scatter plots can convey patterns in data pairs that would not be apparent from a table.<br>

## 4.2 Histogram
A histogram is a graphical representation of a frequency distribution.<br>
A histogram is a bar chart (with no spaces between the columns).<br>
A histogram can make it easy to identify outliers within a given dataset.<br>

## 4.3 Line Chart
Line charts are used to show the relationship between two numerical variables, and display a time series, to spot trends, or to compare time periods.<br>
Line charts are best used when you want to show how the value of something changes over time.<br>

## 4.4 Bar Chart
A bar chart is a common chart type for graphing categorical data or data sorted into groups.<br>
A column chart is a vertical display of the data.<br>
A bar chart is a horizontal display of the data.<br>

## 4.5 Stacked Bar Chart
A traditional bar chart displays a single categorical variable in the form of bars.<br>
A stacked bar chart shows two categorical variables. <br>
- The first (and primary) variable is shown along the entire length of the bar, and the second variable is represented as stacks within each categorical bar.

## 4.6 Box Plot
It is a dense display that aims to provide lots of context for any given dataset. <br>
The chart visually represents several summary metrics in a single view: minimum, maximum, median, lower quartileh, upper quartile.








    



        
